# Today I Learned

This is a series of unstructured notes where I quickly jot down things that I'm
learning each day.

## References

<details>
  <summary>2020-07-22</summary>

  # [[2020-07-22]]

  ## [[details-element]] 

  [Create a collapsible block in an HTML doc][collapsible] by using the
  `<details>` and `<summary>` elements:

  ```HTML
  <details>
    <summary>Expandable title!</summary>
    <!-- space required here -->

    content inside of the collapsible block
  </details>
  ```

  The above HTML ends up looking like this:

  <p class="codepen" data-height="265" data-theme-id="dark" data-default-tab="html,result" data-user="joshling1919" data-slug-hash="QWyYVbQ" style="height: 265px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;" data-pen-title="collapsible HTML block">
    <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/joshling1919/pen/QWyYVbQ">
    collapsible HTML block</a> by Joshua Ling (<a href="https://codepen.io/joshling1919">@joshling1919</a>)
    on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
  </p>
  <script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>


  > Note: to implement this behavior inside of markdown documents in Github pages,
  > [add a _config.yml][config] file inside of the github repo and add `markdown:
  > CommonMarkGhPages`.

  [config]: https://github.community/t/collapsible-markdown-inside-details-summary-summary-details-fails-to-render/10489
  [collapsible]: https://gist.github.com/pierrejoubert73/902cc94d79424356a8d20be2b382e1ab

</details>

<details>
  <summary>2020-07-21</summary>

  # [[2020-07-21]]

  ## [[ssl]]

  Airbrake stopped working for a Rails project. Whenever a call is made to
  Airbrake, the following error happens: 

  ```shell
  [Airbrake] Unable to contact the
  Airbrake server. HTTP Error=SSL_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=error:
  certificate verify failed.
  ```

  According to [this blog
  post](https://blog.engineyard.com/ruby-ssl-error-certificate-verify-failed):

  > HTTPS is secured using an SSL certificate. Secure Sockets Layer, or SSL, is the
  > security protocol that provides secure communication between two machines.

  With SSL, `machine 1` looks at the SSL certificate of `machine 2`. `Machine 1`
  uses numbers in `machine 2`'s certificate to encrypt messages that it sends to
  `machine 2`.

  When `machine 1` connects to `machine 2`, `machine 1` has to verify that
  `machine 2`'s certificate is valid. The SSL certificate is signed by a
  Certificate Authority to prove its authenticity. Apparently the certificate
  authorities are then also signed by another authority, and this goes on until it
  reaches a root certificate.

  In the case of our error, this either happened because our machine's certificate
  has issues or because Airbrake's has issues.

  It's likely our machine's certificate. The blog post offered two solutions:

  1. Fix machine certificates.
  2. Fix by updating gems. Apparently some ruby gems specify their own Certificate
    Authority certificates, like ActiveMerchant.

  ### [[open-questions]]

  Here are the things I still don't get:
  - [ ] If anyone can just look at `machine 2`'s certificate, then how does `machine
    2` know who to trust, and how can it be sure that `machine 1` is actually who
    it says it is? (The blog post mentioned SSL handshake but did not go into
    details.) 

</details>

<details>
  <summary>2020-07-20</summary>

  # [[2020-07-20]]

  ## [[deep-work]]

  According to [this blog
  post](https://azeria-labs.com/the-importance-of-deep-work-the-30-hour-method-for-learning-a-new-skill/),
  it takes approximately 25 minutes of focus without distraction to reach a state
  of flow.

  For a while, I've rationalized that as long as I'm [not having a "zero
  day"](https://medium.com/@fayadh56/the-concept-of-no-more-zero-days-and-why-motivation-is-fleeting-9c1c307f8948),
  then that's good enough.

  While a little progress is better than no progress, it's foolish to become
  satisfied with a state of consistent little progress.

  For example, I used to think that 10 minutes of practicing Rust each day is good
  enough, as long as I do it for a sustained period of time. If I end up doing 10
  minutes per day for six months, that adds up to ~30 hours. That time would
  be infinitely more productive if I instead broke it up into six blocks of
  uninterrupted, 4-hour, deep dives into Rust like the author of that blog
  suggested.

  ## [[vs-code]]

  I've been trying to turn on auto text wrap while I'm editing markdown in VS
  Code.

  Previously, I had used the [`Rewrap`
  extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=stkb.rewrap) to
  manually rewrap paragraphs, but had no idea that it also had the ability to
  [auto-wrap](https://github.com/stkb/Rewrap/wiki/Auto-wrap).
</details>



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[2020-07-22]: 2020-07/2020-07-22 "2020-07-22"
[details-element]: ../topics/html/details-element "<details>"
[2020-07-21]: 2020-07/2020-07-21 "2020-07-21"
[ssl]: ../topics/web/ssl "Secure Sockets Layer"
[open-questions]: ../misc/open-questions "Open Questions"
[2020-07-20]: 2020-07/2020-07-20 "2020-07-20"
[deep-work]: ../topics/productivity/deep-work "Deep Work"
[vs-code]: ../topics/tools/vs-code "VS Code"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
