# 2020-07-23[[today-i-learned]]

## [[rbac]]

```
User -> roles -> permissions
```

With Role-Based Access Control (RBAC), a user has roles, and then a role has
permissions.

It seems like RBAC becomes useful when you have many different types of users
and several different levels of permissions across your system.

For example, let's assume we're building a web app for a school district that
helps everyone stay up-to-date with important announcements, and you have the
following users:

1. teacher
2. student
3. principals
4. superintendent 

The web app has the following API endpoints:

- `POST district_wide_announcements`
  - only superintendents are allowed to make district-wide announcements.
- `GET district_wide_announcements`
  - as of this point in time, all authenticated users are allowed to get
    district-wide announcements.
- `POST school_wide_announcements`
  - teachers and principals can create school-wide announcements for the school
    that they work at.
  - superintendents can make school-wide announcements for any school.


Here's how we might set up RBAC. We create 4 roles:

1. student
2. teacher
3. principal
4. superintendent

We then create the following permission scopes:

1. `create:district`
2. `create:school`
3. `read:district`

Then assign the scopes to the users:

1. student
   1. `read:district`
2. teacher
   1. `read:district`
   2. `create:school`
3. principal
   1. `read:district`
   2. `create:school`
4. superintendent
   1. `read:district`
   2. `create:school`
   3. `create:district`

And now we can lock down the API in the following way:

- `POST district_wide_announcements`
  - `create:district`
- `POST school_wide_announcements`
  - `create:district`
    - a user with this permission can broadcast to any school.
  - `create:school`
    - a user with this permission can broadcast to school they work at.
- `GET district_wide_announcements`
  - `read:district`

It seems like a full-blown RBAC system is still a little overkill for this
specific example. We could have just checked the specific roles instead of
depending on permissions, but perhaps this becomes easier to manage if you added
another micro-service that helps principals manage finances. Now with that API,
you could add a `create:financial_report` permission and assign it to the
`principal` and `superintendent` role.

Then, let's say the school hired an account. Now, you could also add an
`accountant` role and give them that same `create:financial_report` role.

Without RBAC, we would have to update the API to now check whether or not the
user is an `accountant` || `principal` || `superintedent`, but now we are able
to flexibly give the accountant access without needing to go update that API.

This feels like a nice separation of concerns, where the API only needs to know
about one set of permissions, rather than keeping track of all the different
roles that might exist in that system. 

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[today-i-learned]: ../today-i-learned "Today I Learned"
[rbac]: ../../topics/security/rbac "Role-Based Access Control"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
