# 2020-07-30[[today-i-learned]]

## C#

All code inside C# is written inside classes. Even the main function executes
inside of a class.

### `var` vs class variables

Local variables can use the `var` keyword to infer the type. When defining class
properties, we have to explicitly specify the type instead of using the `var`
keyword.

### private vs public

Private properties can't be accessed outside of the class:

```c#

class Student
{
  public string Name;
  private int phone;

  public void SetPhone(int number)
  {
    phone = number;
  }
}
```

It's also convention to lowercase private variables.

### properties

Previously we'd been calling all of the class variables above "properties", but
in C#, a "property" is a member that enables a class to expose a public way of
getting and setting values while hiding implementation or verification code.

```c#
class Student
{
  public string Name;
  private int phone;

  public int Phone
  {
    set { phone = value; console.WriteLine(phone); }
  }

  public void SetPhone(int number)
  {
    phone = number;
  }
}
```

So in the example above, `Phone` is a property. The variables above like `Name`
are called "fields".

Property behaves like a function, so notice in the setter of `Phone`, we were
able to console.WriteLine after setting the phone value.

### static members

Static fields are shared across all instances of that class.

```c#
class Student
{
  static public int Count = 0;
  public string Name;
  private int phone;

  public int Phone
  {
    set { phone = value; console.WriteLine(phone); }
  }

  public void SetPhone(int number)
  {
    phone = number;
  }
}
```

In the example above, the static variable Count is accessed by calling
`Static.Count`. We didn't have to create an instance of Student for that static
field.

### constructors

A class can have multiple constructors.

```c#
class Student
{
  static public int Count = 0;
  public string Name;
  private int phone;

  public Student()
  {

  }

  public Student(string name, int phone)
  {
    Name = name;
    phone = phone;
  }

  public int Phone
  {
    set { phone = value; console.WriteLine(phone); }
  }

  public void SetPhone(int number)
  {
    phone = number;
  }
}
```

This would allow the following instantiations of a Student:

```c#

new Student()
new Student("Josh", 12345679)

```



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[today-i-learned]: ../today-i-learned "Today I Learned"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
